README.md, before:

# paratrooper [![Build Status][1]][2] [![NPM version][5]][6] [![Dependencies][7]][8]

> They are used for tactical advantage as they can be inserted into the battlefield from the air, 
> thereby allowing them to be positioned in areas not accessible by land. -- [Wikipedia][4]

A CLI tool for deploying a node web app to an Ubuntu server with nginx, upstart and git, in a simple way.
Tested with [Github][github] and [Bitbucket][bitbucket] repositories.


## Installation

```
npm install -g paratrooper
```


## Prerequisites

The remote machine must have `git`, `nginx`, `node` and `npm` installed before deployments can be made to it. The machine should also be configured for remote access via ssh.


## Usage
```no-highlight
pt <init|deploy|remove> [target] -d <directory>
```

_note: You can also use `paratrooper` instead of `pt` for verbosity._

* Run `pt init [target]` to generate the deploy config files. You need to commit and push these files before deploying.
* Run `pt deploy [target]` to begin a deployment.
* Run `pt remove [target]` to stop and remove the app from the server.


### Options

Paratrooper uses the project's `package.json` file to present you with some sane defaults, so it's recommended to
have the `name` and `repository` fields filled out before executing `pt init [target]`.

#### [target]

Specifies the type of environment, and is an arbitrary value based on your workflow. Target is usually `alpha`, `beta`, `staging`, or `production`,
but you are free to specify whatever value you want. Each target has it's own set of configurations. If a target isn't specified, then by default it's `production`.

#### --directory &lt;path&gt; (-d)

Config files are stored in the `deploy` directory unless you specify a custom directory via `-d <directory>`. Example: `pt deploy -d deployconfigs`.
If this option is used with `pt init`, it must be used with all other commands.

#### --root-path &lt;directory&gt; (-r)

Used for repos where the application root directory isn't at the root of the repository, so something like `webapp/` might be valid input for your project.
This value defaults to the root of the repository.

#### --ssh-identity-file &lt;sshKeyFile&gt; (-i)

Pass through the `ssh -i` option for working with certain servers where you don't have a password, but a key file instead.
This option is available for `deploy` and `remove` commands.

## Example
First run `pt init` and answer the questions. It will try to guess some settings for you – if you're happy with the guess, just hit enter to accept it:

```no-highlight
pt init
```
Commit your repo with the new deplyoment directory and it's contents, then deploy.

```no-highlight
pt deploy
```

## Questions
After running `pt init`, you'll be asked a series of questions. Here's what each answer is used for:

#### What is the URL of your app?

This is the public URL your app will be served from on the server you are deploying to.

#### What is the app's git clone URL?

The URL of the repo. The repo is cloned on the first deploy and then pulled from thereafter.

#### Which branch should be used for deployment?

This is the git branch that you want your application source to be cloned/pulled from.

#### What value would you like to use for NODE_ENV?

This is usually `production` or maybe `development`, and dictates how your app is built or served.

#### What port is your app listening on?

The port the node app listens on. This is needed to properly link the node process
with the upstream nginx server.

#### What is the server's SSH address?

The SSH address for your deployment server, so we can setup/deploy your app.
The user + host address of the server, i.e. `root@yourserver.com` or `myname@123.23.211.23` or `deployuser@someinstance`.


## Notes
- Following a successful deploy, `pt` will wait a further 15 seconds (to account for the configured respawn limits of upstart) to verify the app process is still alive and well.

- As a shorthand, the `pt init`, `pt deploy`, `pt remove` commands can also be referred to by their first letter, i.e. `pt i`, `pt d` and `pt r` respectively.

- If no errors are reported, the command was successful. The appropriate zero or non-zero error code is returned to allow `pt` to be invoked by third party tools.

- It's assumed that **all** files in the `sites-enabled` nginx directory are valid config files, i.e. that your `nginx.conf` includes them using something like this `include /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/*;`.

## Testing

Tests are written using mocha/chai, and can be executed via `npm test`.

## Attribution

This project is based off Martin Rue's [node-deploy][3].

[1]: https://travis-ci.org/knownasilya/paratrooper.svg?branch=master
[2]: https://travis-ci.org/knownasilya/paratrooper
[3]: https://github.com/martinrue/node-deploy
[4]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paratrooper
[5]: https://badge.fury.io/js/paratrooper.svg
[6]: http://badge.fury.io/js/paratrooper
[7]: https://david-dm.org/knownasilya/paratrooper.svg
[8]: https://david-dm.org/knownasilya/paratrooper
[github]: https://github.com
[bitbucket]: https://bitbucket.org

Commit message:

update readme for target select

README.md, after:

# paratrooper [![Build Status][1]][2] [![NPM version][5]][6] [![Dependencies][7]][8]

> They are used for tactical advantage as they can be inserted into the battlefield from the air, 
> thereby allowing them to be positioned in areas not accessible by land. -- [Wikipedia][4]

A CLI tool for deploying a node web app to an Ubuntu server with nginx, upstart and git, in a simple way.
Tested with [Github][github] and [Bitbucket][bitbucket] repositories.


## Installation

```
npm install -g paratrooper
```


## Prerequisites

The remote machine must have `git`, `nginx`, `node` and `npm` installed before deployments can be made to it. The machine should also be configured for remote access via ssh.


## Usage

```no-highlight
pt <init|deploy|remove> [target] -d <directory>
```

_note: You can also use `paratrooper` instead of `pt` for verbosity._

* Run `pt init [target]` to generate the deploy config files. You need to commit and push these files before deploying.
* Run `pt deploy [target]` to begin a deployment.
* Run `pt remove [target]` to stop and remove the app from the server.

If you omit the `[target]` for `deploy` or `remove` commands, then you'll either get a list of
available targets, or it will automatically select the target, if you only have one.


## Example

First run `pt init` and answer the questions. It will try to guess some settings for you – if you're happy with the guess, just hit enter to accept it:

```no-highlight
pt init
```

Commit your repo with the new deplyoment directory and it's contents, then deploy.

```no-highlight
pt deploy
```


### Options

Paratrooper uses the project's `package.json` file to present you with some sane defaults, so it's recommended to
have the `name` and `repository` fields filled out before executing `pt init [target]`.

#### [target]

Specifies the type of environment, and is an arbitrary value based on your workflow. Target is usually `alpha`, `beta`, `staging`, or `production`,
but you are free to specify whatever value you want. Each target has it's own set of configurations. If a target isn't specified, then by default it's `production`.

#### --directory &lt;path&gt; (-d)

Config files are stored in the `deploy` directory unless you specify a custom directory via `-d <directory>`. Example: `pt deploy -d deployconfigs`.
If this option is used with `pt init`, it must be used with all other commands.

#### --root-path &lt;directory&gt; (-r)

Used for repos where the application root directory isn't at the root of the repository, so something like `webapp/` might be valid input for your project.
This value defaults to the root of the repository.

#### --ssh-identity-file &lt;sshKeyFile&gt; (-i)

Pass through the `ssh -i` option for working with certain servers where you don't have a password, but a key file instead.
This option is available for `deploy` and `remove` commands.

## Questions

After running `pt init`, you'll be asked a series of questions. Here's what each answer is used for:

#### What is the URL of your app?

This is the public URL your app will be served from on the server you are deploying to.

#### What is the app's git clone URL?

The URL of the repo. The repo is cloned on the first deploy and then pulled from thereafter.

#### Which branch should be used for deployment?

This is the git branch that you want your application source to be cloned/pulled from.

#### What value would you like to use for NODE_ENV?

This is usually `production` or maybe `development`, and dictates how your app is built or served.

#### What port is your app listening on?

The port the node app listens on. This is needed to properly link the node process
with the upstream nginx server.

#### What is the server's SSH address?

The SSH address for your deployment server, so we can setup/deploy your app.
The user + host address of the server, i.e. `root@yourserver.com` or `myname@123.23.211.23` or `deployuser@someinstance`.


## Notes
- Following a successful deploy, `pt` will wait a further 15 seconds (to account for the configured respawn limits of upstart) to verify the app process is still alive and well.

- As a shorthand, the `pt init`, `pt deploy`, `pt remove` commands can also be referred to by their first letter, i.e. `pt i`, `pt d` and `pt r` respectively.

- If no errors are reported, the command was successful. The appropriate zero or non-zero error code is returned to allow `pt` to be invoked by third party tools.

- It's assumed that **all** files in the `sites-enabled` nginx directory are valid config files, i.e. that your `nginx.conf` includes them using something like this `include /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/*;`.

## Testing

Tests are written using mocha/chai, and can be executed via `npm test`.

## Attribution

This project is based off Martin Rue's [node-deploy][3].

[1]: https://travis-ci.org/knownasilya/paratrooper.svg?branch=master
[2]: https://travis-ci.org/knownasilya/paratrooper
[3]: https://github.com/martinrue/node-deploy
[4]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paratrooper
[5]: https://badge.fury.io/js/paratrooper.svg
[6]: http://badge.fury.io/js/paratrooper
[7]: https://david-dm.org/knownasilya/paratrooper.svg
[8]: https://david-dm.org/knownasilya/paratrooper
[github]: https://github.com
[bitbucket]: https://bitbucket.org
